# Assignment 1

## Q1
Componets and concepts of web development markup languages.

Markup languages are a way of coding using symbols to control the stucture and content of a text document. They group commonly used features together so that they can all share a common format or functionality. 

They have several defined elements (for example H1, H2, etc which define certain header styles and will format them accordingly). These elements are commonly distinguished between the content by using symbols, such as `<>` or `#`. Rather than having a section of the document for markup definitions and a separate section for the content, markup languages often inter-mingle these so that the element is defined immediately followed by the content of that element.

Another common feature is the output follows the flow of the markup document, therefore the elements and content are entered in the order they should be displayed, which makes it simple to write and easy for others to understand.

Some elements are described as being "semantic". Examples of semantic elements are `h1` meaning "level 1 header', `p` meaning "paragraph" and `img` meaning "image". Semantic elements make it easy for users to write and understand the code because they describe the element's function.

>Citation: Markup language (2023) Wikipedia. Available at: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markup_language (Accessed: 21 September 2023). 


<br><br>
## Q2
**Packets**: In computer networking, packets are used to break large amounts of information being sent over a network into smaller pieces or "packets". The reason for this is that if information were sent as a whole, it would slow the network down significantly. By using this system, individual packets are sent separately, each being routed to their destination by various routers and switches. When the packets arrive at their destination, they are re-assembled by the receiving computer to be displayed on screen or used for the intended purpose.



> Citation: (No date a) How does the internet work? |Packets | cloudflare. Available at: https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/network-layer/how-does-the-internet-work/ (Accessed: 18 September 2023). 




**IP addresses (IPv4 and IPv6)**:
IP addresses were created to provide an address for any device or domain that is connected to a computer network. It serves as that device's address on the internet. IP version 4 (IPv4) was the original format used for IP addresses. IPv4 provides addresses as a 32-bit number in the format of 4 fields, each separated by a dot (.).

As the internet grew, the number of available addresses in IPv4 became limited, so Ipv6 (IP Version 6) came into effect. These addresses are in hexadecimal format of 128 bits, comprising 8 fields separated by a colon (:). The benefits of IPv6 compared with IPv4 are:

1. Providing vastly more available addresses
1. Providing integrated security measures meaning Ipv6 addresses are less susceptible to attacks.

CITATION NEEDED: simplilearn.com/tutorials



**Routers and routing**: Routers are devices that 'route' packets from one place to another. There are home routers which receive data via a modem and then 'forward' it onto whichever device (computer, phone, television etc) connected to the network, that has requested the data. This process exists on a larger scale enabling data packets to be transferred from one router to another until it reaches its intended destination. Each packet has information contained within it specifying its destination. Routers will use routing tables to determine the best route, similar to physical route planning in a car using maps and the road network. It might be that the shortest route is impacted by a traffic jam; a router will look for a diversion, which may be a longer route but will ultimately be more efficient than the impacted usual route. 

Routing Tables automatic/static: There is a system where the routers are able to gain information about the length of time the routes are taking and make adjustments to standard routes when required. [*Further research required*]

>Citation: Router (computing) (2023) Wikipedia. Available at: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Router_(computing) (Accessed: 21 September 2023). 

**Domains and DNS**: Domains are the addresses of web pages, and they allow web browsers to locate the information being requested. In their original form, they are a collection of numbers which are interpreted by computers. In order to make this easier for humans, the Domain Name System (DNS) was introduced. This provides a human-friendly name which corresponds to each web page, meaning users are able to enter [www.google.com](https://www.google.com) into their browser's address bar, instead of needing to know the Google page's domain address. When a user types a domain name into the address bar, a process is carried out to link the domain name to the corresponding domain.

This system was instumental in enabling the internet to become widely used by non-technical people. A user friendly method to easily access web pages on the Internet was needed to make the Internet what it is today.

> Citation: (No date a) What is a domain name? | domain name vs. URL | cloudflare. Available at: https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/glossary/what-is-a-domain-name/ (Accessed: 23 September 2023). 



<br><br>

## Q3
**TCP**: Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is a secuity measure used when sending and receiving data via the internet. As discussed in the previous answer, when data is requested, it is broken down into smaller pieces called packets. These packets are first encrypted and then each is routed separately to the requesting device. Internet Protocol is responsible for the process of sending the packets, but TCP is needed to de-crypt them when they arrive, so that (in the case of a web page) the jumbled code is converted into an HTML file which can be interpreted by the web browser.

> Citation: (No date a) What is TCP/IP? | cloudflare. Available at: https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ddos/glossary/tcp-ip/ (Accessed: 23 September 2023). 

**HTTP and HTTPS**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is a fundamental part and underpins everything related to the Internet. The 'protocol' part of this is related to a multi-layed system of protocols that are required to send and receive information via the Internet. This protocol exists at the 'application level', which means that HTTP requests, once received by the computer or device, are interpreted directly by the application. One of the problems with HTTP is that information sent in its raw form can be intercepted and misused by third parties who may be on the same network, or connected to the same public WIFI. To combat this, HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure) was developed to encrypt the information. This is particularly necessary for banking and inputting sensitive information into web applications.

> Citation: (No date a) What is a protocol? | network protocol definition | cloudflare. Available at: https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/network-layer/what-is-a-protocol/ (Accessed: 23 September 2023). 



**Web browsers (requests, rendering and developer tools)**: A web browser is an application that allows users to view, download and interact with content that is stored on the world wide web. When a user makes a request (types in the address or clicks a hyperlink to a page on the internet), the browser makes a HTTP request (or HTTPS if the browser is set in secure mode). Once the process of locating the IP address of the server storing requested information, the transmission protocols and the transfer of the data packets has taken place, the browser will receive the data (HTML, CSS, JavaScript files) needed to render the webpage.

Widely used browsers such as Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge and Safari have built in developer tools which enable web developers to view and troubleshoot web content directly in the browser. This has the benefit of allowing real-time inspection of the elements, their positioning and responsiveness and the ability to make adjustments and immediately see the results. 

>Citations: Web browser (2023) Wikipedia. Available at: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_browser (Accessed: 24 September 2023). 
> Web development tools (2023) Wikipedia. Available at: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_development_tools (Accessed: 24 September 2023). 





<br><br>
## Q4



<br><br>
## Q5



<br><br>
## Q6



<br><br>
## Q7
**Access to a user's personal information**

**Aggressive sales and marketing practices**

**Intellectual property, copyright, and acknowledgement**
<br><br>
## Q8
Control flow is the process of allowing the program to follow different paths depending on various factors. Usually a program is not intended to run from start to finish executing every line of code. It's more likely that if one thing happens, then the program should do x and if another thing happens it should do y. Therefore programming languages have conditional statements e.g.: 
- if 
- then
- else if

There are also loops, which will execute one or more lines of code one or more times e.g.:
- do 
- while
- for


<br><br>
## Q9



<br><br>
## Q10
Data types are used to identify to the computer what type of data to expect. Whole numbers (such as age or year of birth) should be stored in `integer` variables. Numbers which will have decimal places (such as weight in kg, height in metres) should be stored as `floating point` numbers.

Other variable types are: 
- `string` - used for names or input that could contain both numeric and non-numeric input 
    
    e.g. "Sarah", "puppy", "12 Station Road"
- `Boolean` which is used to store `true` or `false` only.


<br><br>
## Q11



<br><br>
## Q12



<br><br>
## Q13



<br><br>
## Q14



<br><br>
## Q15



<br><br>
## Q16